(0:00) Hi, Chris Sauer. Hi, Kate Johnson. Nice to meet you.Nice to meet you, Kate.
(0:04) Chris, please tell me a little bit about yourself. Well, I'm currently finishing my Master's of 
(0:09) Education program at Lake Erie College and working on transitioning from a northeastern Ohioaner 
(0:14) to being a member of the Jacksonville area community.Why the move? Well, my wife's job 
(0:22) is moving down south and I'm coming along with her. That's very noble and admirable about you at 
(0:30) the same time. How did you hear about the position open with our company here at REI? 
(0:34) Well, when I thought about the opportunity of changing locations and moving from one physical 
(0:40) location to another, I thought about making a career move as well.And I was starting with 
(0:46) my main interests and passions. And I love being outside. I love doing outdoor activities.
(0:52) And I love working with people. And I thought if I could use my experience as a teacher, 
(0:56) helping people, and my interest in the outdoors together, that would be a good place to start a 
(1:02) new career. And when I was looking online, I found REI's website and that there were positions 
(1:07) available in the Jacksonville area.So I thought I would apply. Great. Well, you say you have an 
(1:11) interest in outdoor activities.So this would be a great company for you to work at. That being 
(1:18) said, what else do you know about our company? Well, I know you've been around for a long time 
(1:22) since the late 1930s. And what really caught my attention the most was the idea that it was 
(1:27) started by people who had a passion for the outdoors and found a way to involve others 
(1:32) in their experience.I like the idea, too, that your company is consistently ranked among the 
(1:39) top 100 companies to work for by Fortune magazine. And I thought growing with a company that has that 
(1:45) level of success would be a good place to be. Great.Why do you want this particular position 
(1:53) here within our customer service department? Because I want to start in a position that allows 
(1:59) me to learn everything about the company from the very basic level of interacting with the 
(2:04) customers all the way up throughout the sales process, the marketing process, and the production 
(2:09) of goods and services. When I saw the opportunity for customer service, I thought it aligned very 
(2:15) well with the skill set that I have and also with some skills that I could bring to the company 
(2:19) that might be unique. Can you tell me a little bit more about these skills that you would transfer 
(2:23) from your previous line of work to our department here? Sure.In education, it's all about making the 
(2:29) customer or student feel comfortable and helping them grow. I feel that within a company like REI, 
(2:35) it's the same philosophy, getting a customer comfortable with the product and helping them 
(2:40) grow as they advance in whatever sport they happen to be participating in. Why do you think
(2:47) that our company should hire you specifically amongst our pool of candidates that are 
(2:51) interviewing for this position? Sure.I think one skill set that I have involves my background in 
(2:56) education. Teachers are among the highest stressed professionals in the workplace and REI offers a 
(3:03) number of products that help alleviate stress by getting people outdoors. And teachers also have a 
(3:08) lot of downtime in the summers.My thinking is that once I learn the ropes and advance within the 
(3:13) company, I'll be able to market the services and products that REI offers specifically to the 
(3:19) teaching profession. I have to ask this question. Given that you are making a career change here, 
(3:28) especially with finishing a master's degree in education, if a position becomes available 
(3:37) in your current field down here in the Jacksonville area, how do you approach being 
(3:43) offered this job versus being offered a position in your field? And I'm asking that in the now and 
(3:50) in the future.Sure. That's a great question. I'm not pursuing further educational opportunities 
(3:55) within that profession.I feel like this customer service opportunity, the chance to work in a field 
(4:01) that I enjoy as much as teaching is a place that I could grow into long term. So what I get out 
(4:09) of teaching is working with people and helping people become a little bit better than they were 
(4:14) when I first met them. And that skill translates very well into REI's mission.And so I don't 
(4:20) anticipate leaving a successful career for something I've already done. I feel like this is 
(4:26) a natural confluence of my two interests. Chris, what would you identify as your greatest professional 
(4:37) strengths? Well, I think patience is probably my greatest strength.
That translates across 
(4:43) the careers. Being able to listen to a student or customer's difficulty and help them overcome 
(4:50) that difficulty with patience and compassion is my greatest strength. Would you consider an
(4:55) weaknesses that you have to be detrimental to the job? I think there's a risk when it comes 
(5:03) to compassion.I think people can misinterpret compassion as being easy or willing to roll over 
(5:10) when it's important to understand that compassion is something that is earned and it's interactive. 
(5:17) And I feel like if I establish clear boundaries with customers, clients, students, they understand 
(5:22) that I am understanding, I am patient, I am kind, yet I'm also going to hold the people I interact 
(5:28) with to a high standard. To date, what would you say is your greatest professional achievement? 
(5:38) Personally, becoming a teacher, earning a master's degree, those have all been wonderful experiences 
(5:43) for me.But the greatest achievement would have to be working with young people and helping them 
(5:49) get a little bit better at communicating with the world around them. Chris, can you tell me 
(5:57) about a challenge or conflict that you've faced in the workplace and how you would deal with it? 
(6:03) Sure. Within the education profession, there are challenges every day.You're dealing with 
(6:08) hundreds of different personalities and interests and levels of enthusiasm. 
(6:14) So being able to engage students with content in an enriching way is part of overcoming a conflict 
(6:21) or difficulty. I think building professional relationships is another way to deal with 
(6:24) conflicts, understanding where people come from.Prior to teaching, I was involved with a 
(6:29) photography company, photographing events like weddings and bar mitzvahs and very, very important 
(6:35) events in people's lives. And a lot of times conflicts would arise. So again, just like in 
(6:39) teaching, overcoming those conflicts with patients and listening to the client or customer's needs 
(6:45) is very important.Now you are interviewing for a position that is not an entry-level position 
(6:52) and there is the possibility that those in our company that were overlooked for this position 
(6:58) may have some animosity regarding the new hire for this position. So how do you approach 
(7:03) this potential challenge here at the workplace? The important thing is to listen to the people 
(7:08) around me and understand that I am a newcomer and that they know more about the work environment
(7:14) than I will coming in. I think because I have a friendly demeanor and I'm not confrontational 
(7:20) when meeting new people that in time we'll have a chance to earn each other's mutual respect 
(7:25) and understand that we both want the same thing, the company to grow and us to grow within the 
(7:30) company.Where do you see yourself in five years, specifically within our company? Hopefully I'll 
(7:37) be able to develop a market that allows me to interact with people within the teaching profession 
(7:41) and grow our brand using that market as a target client base. That's great. 
(7:46) Are you interviewing currently with any other companies and if so what interests you about those 
(7:56) particular companies as well? Since I'm new to the area I haven't had the opportunity to interview 
(8:00) with a wide variety of companies.I have looked at Bass Pro Shops and I'm currently scheduled 
(8:05) to interview with them. They have a similar mission and similar goals to REI, it's just 
(8:11) that their product line is more specifically tailored than REI's more diverse offerings. 
(8:19) We here at REI, you know, it is being in customer service there are aspects of your job that are 
(8:25) going to be a little less active than I could expect you being in a teaching position where I
(8:31) assume you're on your feet more one-on-one, face-to-face with individuals.Do you prefer a 
(8:38) specific type of work environment? Do you thrive in a variety of work environments and what does 
(8:44) this look like? Well I thrive in a variety of work environments. I wouldn't expect to be sitting in
(8:49) a cubicle interacting with customers unless I'm handling a phone call and that's fine that's part 
(8:53) of the job. But what I would expect is to be actively engaged with the customers who come 
(8:57) into the store and helping show them the products that might best suit their needs and introducing
(9:02) them to products that they might not have considered before.So what I'd expect to be up 
(9:07) moving around and being consistently engaged with a customer or trying to find ways to improve what 
(9:13) we offer to our customers. Can you describe a time for me ever that you may have disagreed 
(9:20) on a decision that was made for you and staff members at work and how did you deal with this? 
(9:26) Sure within the field of education there are new initiatives being rolled out all the time
(9:30) and sometimes those initiatives get mandated. You have to teach this way this many times a week 
(9:35) and when something like that happens I think it's important to go back to what you know about 
(9:40) your profession or your skill set and be able to provide research that supports 
(9:44) why you do what you do.And I think when faced with a difficulty again it's important to do 
(9:49) what the boss says and it's important to also advocate for what might be best for the customer 
(9:55) or student. All right we're going to move on to some cognitive behavioral questions and basically 
(10:04) these questions are designed they're not necessarily about your past your experience they're sort of 
(10:11) out-of-the-box questions and so just do your best at answering them as you go through this. So
(10:17) if you were an animal what would you be and why? That's a tough question.I think 
(10:26) considering the traits of my dog if I had to be an animal I would certainly want to be a 
(10:32) domesticated dog. They just have that ability to love unconditionally, they're intensely loyal
(10:39) and they just provide so many benefits to people. That's something I'd like to do in my life as a 
(10:44) human too.Great the next question how many tennis balls can you fit into a limousine? 
(10:53) Tennis balls in the limousine well I guess to effectively answer that question I would need
(10:59) some help. I would need to know what type of limousine because if we're talking about a 
(11:04) stretch SUV that's a much larger volume than a smaller limousine. Are we talking two-door, 
(11:09) four-door? I also don't know what's in the limousine already.Are there people in there 
(11:14) or is it empty? Once I had those questions answered I would have to do some calculations about the
(11:20) size of a tennis ball, how much area or how much volume it takes up, calculate the inside of the
(11:25) limousine and then make sure the math works out. I could get that answer to you I just can't do it
(11:30) off the top of my head. Great let me ask this final question.Do you have any questions for us? 
(11:41) Well I mentioned a couple times about being interested in helping grow a market for REI.
(11:46) I'm just curious as a new employee or someone starting out on the lower level 
(11:51) how open is upper management hearing the ideas of an employee? We do try to have 
(11:59) monthly meetings where we meet with a variety of employees at random. So these aren't things that 
(12:05) are necessarily scheduled regularly.They're very semi-annual. They're very informal. 
(12:13) We do like to hear our employees opinions about our products especially and about marketing.
(12:19) One thing that we don't necessarily do is the lower level positions that are dealing maybe
(12:25) with collections or the intake and distribution of customer service calls. We don't 
(12:33) necessarily talk to that group of employees very often but I'd be very interested to hear your 
(12:39) opinions on that. Should you be hired for the position and maybe ways that we could do better 
(12:44) as well by reaching a larger group of our employees to benefit our company.Okay and the last question 
(12:50) for me. What from your perspective is the best part about working for REI? I think the work 
(12:56) atmosphere with our company is very welcoming and even in my position in somewhat upper management 
(13:03) those that I work for that are above me they're very we're very good to our employees and I think
(13:08) because of the treatment of our employees we retain employment. It's very easy for us to get 
(13:15) things done because people want to do their jobs.I have worked myself in positions where
(13:21) I've worked underneath people who are more tyrannical in nature and it's very difficult 
(13:26) to want to do more and go above and beyond what you need to do in those situations. So I believe 
(13:31) that that's the number one benefit of working in our particular company is the atmosphere itself.
(13:36) Great.Thank you so much for your time Kate. Thank you so much. Take care.
